there are so many ultrasonic cleaning
solutions available that you may not
know which one to choose but choosing
the right solution is essential to
cleaning parts properly having a general
knowledge of available solutions can get
you into the right ballpark from there
is important to know what the parts are
made of and what the contaminants are
being removed before you make your final
decision hi I'm Frank paedophilia with a
mega sonic sign I want to share what
types of cleaning solutions are best in
certain situations not all contaminants
are removed by all detergents even in an
ultrasonic cleaner the type of part also
factors into which solution can be used
otherwise we would just use the most
powerful cleaner we can get our hands on
70% sulfuric acid removes scale easily
but it can also eat into carbon steel a
compromise must be made between removing
the contaminant and protecting the part
here is a closer look at some common
cleaning solutions alkaline solutions
are considered general-purpose cleaners
and do a good job of removing oil grease
and carbon deposits as well as dirt and
dust some have rest inhibitors built in
to prevent susceptible metals from
oxidizing or rusting after removal from
an ultrasonic cleaner acidic solutions
are best suited for removing scale
oxidation and tarnish but aren't as good
with oil grease and cutting fluids one
type of solution that deserves special
mention the citrus based cleaners this
type of mildly acidic formulation is
also a general-purpose cleaner yet it is
excellent at passivating various grades
of stainless steel and titanium
passivation is a process of removing
free iron molecules from the surface of
specific metals to create a rust free
surface this process is most often used
in aerospace medical and the food
processing industry enzymatic detergents
are ideal for removing protein-based
such as blood excrement human tissue
mold mildew and bacteria these solutions
are commonly used to clean medical and
dental instruments as well as food grade
equipment this type of solution digests
cutting fluids and oils as a carbon
dioxide by-product so that they leave no
residue behind in the cleaner
lastly deionized water is not
specifically a solution but it is still
a phenomenal cleaner for any part that
can be exposed to water di water will
remove surface contaminants light finger
oils and mineral deposits from many
parts to learn more about ultrasonic
cleaners and the solutions available
visit omegis onyx comm or contact a
sales associate at